.. _release-notes_0.1:

***********
Version 0.1
***********

**Date**: 19 May 2025

Whats new?
----------

First release of magnopy.


0.1.8
-----

**Date**: Undefined

* Fix bugs
* Fix a bug with spin directions provided in a file (for the scripts that accept that).
* Fix a bug in Energy with 43 parameters.
* Add new script with primitive plotter for the spin directions.
* Add ``full_ham()`` example.
* Add date and time to the script's output.

0.1.7
-----

**Date**: 12 June 2025

*   Fix bugs
*   Add parameter converters for ``22`` (``converter22``) and ``422`` (``converter422``)
    terms.
*   Add ``alphas`` parameter to the magnetic field addition.
*   Add multiplication of the Hamiltonian by a number.
*   Implement reading of the new public file format of |GROGU|_.
*   Implement summation (and subtraction) of spin Hamiltonians.
*   Implement submodule with examples.
*   Implement energy minimization algorithm.
*   Implement creation of the supercell (warning: not tested)
*   Implement ``__call__`` (equivalent to ``Energy.E_0``) for ``Energy`` class.
*   Update LSWT scenario for the convenience of usage within python.
*   Add spin direction's optimization to the LSWT scenario.
*   Implement new scenario and command line interface for energy optimization.

0.1.6
-----

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version with GROGU files.

**Date**: 16 May 2025

*   Fix a typo in ``load_tb2j()``
*   Fix a bug with reading of TB2J (when no anisotropy is present)
*   Add reading of magnetic moment from TB2J when no-SOC case is used.
*   Rename ``-s/--spins`` to ``-sv/--spin-values`` in ``magnopy-lswt``.

0.1.5
-----

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 26 May 2025

*   Fix :issue:`23`.
*   Rename output file for vampire from "input" to "input-template" to avoid frustrating overwrites.

0.1.4
-----

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 23 May 2025

*   Fix a bug in the TB2J reader. Atom's positions were read as absolute instead of relative.
    Now they are read as relative, as it should be.

*   Fix various bugs in the vampire output.

0.1.3
-----

**Date**: 22 May 2025

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

*   Start to use the term "convention" instead of "notation" both in documentation and
    in the code.

*   Add ax.set_xlabel() for the plot with the custom list of kpoints.

*   Change development status from planning to beta in pyproject.toml

*   Remove total energy from the output. It was not really meaningful, as it was summed
    along the high symmetry path and not across the Brillouin zone. In other words that
    number was incorrect to be outputted from the very beginning.

0.1.2
-----

**Date**: 20 May 2025

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

Change colors in the plots.

0.1.1
-----

**Date**: 20 May 2025

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

*   Fix a bug with the energy units. In the output "eV" was written instead of "meV".
    Now it is written "meV". The values were always outputted in meV.

*   Replace GROGU interface for the temporary simpler one.
